daprdocs/content/en/reference/components-reference/supported-secret-stores/aws-secret-manager.md, before:

---
type: docs
title: "AWS Secrets Manager"
linkTitle: "AWS Secrets Manager"
description: Detailed information on the  secret store component
aliases:
  - "/operations/components/setup-secret-store/supported-secret-stores/aws-secret-manager/"
---

## Component format

To setup AWS Secrets Manager secret store create a component of type `secretstores.aws.secretmanager`. See [this guide]({{< ref "setup-secret-store.md#apply-the-configuration" >}}) on how to create and apply a secretstore configuration. See this guide on [referencing secrets]({{< ref component-secrets.md >}}) to retrieve and use the secret with Dapr components.

See [Authenticating to AWS]({{< ref authenticating-aws.md >}}) for information about authentication-related attributes.

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: awssecretmanager
spec:
  type: secretstores.aws.secretmanager
  version: v1
  metadata:
  - name: region
    value: "[aws_region]"
  - name: accessKey
    value: "[aws_access_key]"
  - name: secretKey
    value: "[aws_secret_key]"
  - name: sessionToken
    value: "[aws_session_token]"
```
{{% alert title="Warning" color="warning" %}}
The above example uses secrets as plain strings. It is recommended to use a local secret store such as [Kubernetes secret store]({{< ref kubernetes-secret-store.md >}}) or a [local file]({{< ref file-secret-store.md >}}) to bootstrap secure key storage.
{{% /alert %}}

## Spec metadata fields

| Field              | Required | Details                                                                 | Example             |
|--------------------|:--------:|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------|
| region             | Y        | The specific AWS region the AWS Secrets Manager instance is deployed in | `"us-east-1"`       |
| accessKey          | Y        | The AWS Access Key to access this resource                              | `"key"`             |
| secretKey          | Y        | The AWS Secret Access Key to access this resource                       | `"secretAccessKey"` |
| sessionToken       | N        | The AWS session token to use                                            | `"sessionToken"`    |

{{% alert title="Important" color="warning" %}}
When running the Dapr sidecar (daprd) with your application on EKS (AWS Kubernetes), if you're using a node/pod that has already been attached to an IAM policy defining access to AWS resources, you **must not** provide AWS access-key, secret-key, and tokens in the definition of the component spec you're using.  
{{% /alert %}}

## Optional per-request metadata properties

The following [optional query parameters]({{< ref "secrets_api#query-parameters" >}}) can be provided when retrieving secrets from this secret store:

Query Parameter | Description
--------- | -----------
`metadata.version_id` | Version for the given secret key.
`metadata.version_stage` | Version stage for the given secret key.

## Create an AWS Secrets Manager instance

Setup AWS Secrets Manager using the AWS documentation: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/tutorials_basic.html.

## Related links
- [Secrets building block]({{< ref secrets >}})
- [How-To: Retrieve a secret]({{< ref "howto-secrets.md" >}})
- [How-To: Reference secrets in Dapr components]({{< ref component-secrets.md >}})
- [Secrets API reference]({{< ref secrets_api.md >}})
- [Authenticating to AWS]({{< ref authenticating-aws.md >}})

Commit message:

Make docs more explicit for skim readers like me :D
I read that accessKey and secretKey were required, and then stopped there, so missing the important note below it.

Signed-off-by: Liam Clarke-Hutchinson <liam@steelsky.co.nz>

daprdocs/content/en/reference/components-reference/supported-secret-stores/aws-secret-manager.md, after:

---
type: docs
title: "AWS Secrets Manager"
linkTitle: "AWS Secrets Manager"
description: Detailed information on the  secret store component
aliases:
  - "/operations/components/setup-secret-store/supported-secret-stores/aws-secret-manager/"
---

## Component format

To setup AWS Secrets Manager secret store create a component of type `secretstores.aws.secretmanager`. See [this guide]({{< ref "setup-secret-store.md#apply-the-configuration" >}}) on how to create and apply a secretstore configuration. See this guide on [referencing secrets]({{< ref component-secrets.md >}}) to retrieve and use the secret with Dapr components.

See [Authenticating to AWS]({{< ref authenticating-aws.md >}}) for information about authentication-related attributes.

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: awssecretmanager
spec:
  type: secretstores.aws.secretmanager
  version: v1
  metadata:
  - name: region
    value: "[aws_region]"
  - name: accessKey
    value: "[aws_access_key]"
  - name: secretKey
    value: "[aws_secret_key]"
  - name: sessionToken
    value: "[aws_session_token]"
```
{{% alert title="Warning" color="warning" %}}
The above example uses secrets as plain strings. It is recommended to use a local secret store such as [Kubernetes secret store]({{< ref kubernetes-secret-store.md >}}) or a [local file]({{< ref file-secret-store.md >}}) to bootstrap secure key storage.
{{% /alert %}}

## Spec metadata fields

| Field              | Required | Details                                                                 | Example             |
|--------------------|:--------:|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------|
| region             | Y        | The specific AWS region the AWS Secrets Manager instance is deployed in | `"us-east-1"`       |
| accessKey          | Y (but see note below)       | The AWS Access Key to access this resource                              | `"key"`             |
| secretKey          | Y (but see note below)       | The AWS Secret Access Key to access this resource                       | `"secretAccessKey"` |
| sessionToken       | N        | The AWS session token to use                                            | `"sessionToken"`    |

{{% alert title="Important note for EKS users" color="warning" %}}
When running the Dapr sidecar (daprd) with your application on EKS (AWS Kubernetes), if you're using a node/pod that has already been attached to an IAM policy defining access to AWS resources, you **must not** provide AWS access-key, secret-key, and tokens in the definition of the component spec you're using.  
{{% /alert %}}

## Optional per-request metadata properties

The following [optional query parameters]({{< ref "secrets_api#query-parameters" >}}) can be provided when retrieving secrets from this secret store:

Query Parameter | Description
--------- | -----------
`metadata.version_id` | Version for the given secret key.
`metadata.version_stage` | Version stage for the given secret key.

## Create an AWS Secrets Manager instance

Setup AWS Secrets Manager using the AWS documentation: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/tutorials_basic.html.

## Related links
- [Secrets building block]({{< ref secrets >}})
- [How-To: Retrieve a secret]({{< ref "howto-secrets.md" >}})
- [How-To: Reference secrets in Dapr components]({{< ref component-secrets.md >}})
- [Secrets API reference]({{< ref secrets_api.md >}})
- [Authenticating to AWS]({{< ref authenticating-aws.md >}})
